README.md, before:

![Working Snippet](./working_snippet.png)

# Jenkins Local Init

A tool for setting up and managing a local Distributed Jenkins Infrastructure with Docker.

## Features

- Automated setup of Jenkins master and agents
- Docker network and volume management
- SSH key generation and management
- Jenkins plugin installation
- Agent deployment and management
- Public URL access via Ngrok for GitHub webhooks

## Prerequisites

Before using this tool, make sure you have the following installed:

- **Docker**: Required for creating and managing containers
  - [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- **Python 3.6+**: Required to run the CLI tool
  - [Install Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- **Git**: Required for cloning the repository
  - [Install Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
- **Ngrok** (Optional): Required for public URL access
  - [Install Ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download)
  - You'll need a free Ngrok account and authtoken

## Installation

### Option 1: Install from GitHub

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Siddartha-Kodaboina/jenkins-local-init.git
cd jenkins-local-init

# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv venv

# Activate the virtual environment
# On macOS/Linux:
source venv/bin/activate
# On Windows:
# venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Install the package in development mode
pip install -e .
```

### Option 2: Use without installation

If you prefer not to install the package, you can run it directly using the Python module:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Siddartha-Kodaboina/jenkins-local-init.git
cd jenkins-local-init

# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv venv

# Activate the virtual environment
# On macOS/Linux:
source venv/bin/activate
# On Windows:
# venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run commands using the Python module
python -m jenkins_local_init.cli.main [COMMAND]
```

## Quick Start

Set up a complete Jenkins infrastructure with a single command:

```bash
# Basic setup with local access only:
jenkins-local-init setup --agents 3 --memory 2g --cpus 2 --admin-user admin --admin-password admin

# Setup with public URL access via Ngrok (for GitHub webhooks):
# IMPORTANT: You must first authenticate with Ngrok before using the --public flag
jenkins-local-init ngrok auth YOUR_NGROK_AUTHTOKEN  # Replace with your token from https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/your-authtoken
jenkins-local-init setup --agents 3 --memory 2g --cpus 2 --admin-user admin --admin-password admin --public

# If running as a module:
python -m jenkins_local_init.cli.main setup --agents 3 --memory 2g --cpus 2 --admin-user admin --admin-password admin
```

This will:
1. Initialize configuration directories
2. Set up Docker network and volume
3. Generate SSH keys
4. Set up Ngrok tunnel (if `--public` flag is used)
5. Deploy Jenkins master (with public URL configuration if Ngrok is used)
6. Install required plugins (credentials, ssh, etc.)
7. Check and build the Jenkins agent image if needed
8. Deploy Jenkins agents

## Detailed Usage

### Complete Setup

```bash
# If installed as a package:
jenkins-local-init setup [OPTIONS]

# If running as a module:
python -m jenkins_local_init.cli.main setup [OPTIONS]
```

Options:
- `--agents INTEGER`: Number of Jenkins agents to create (default: 1)
- `--memory TEXT`: Memory allocation for agents (default: 4g)
- `--cpus INTEGER`: Number of CPUs for agents (default: 2)
- `--admin-user TEXT`: Jenkins admin username (default: admin)
- `--admin-password TEXT`: Jenkins admin password (default: admin)
- `--public`: Create a public URL using Ngrok for remote access (requires prior Ngrok authentication)

### Individual Commands

If you prefer to set up the infrastructure step by step, you can use the following commands. For brevity, we'll show the commands using the installed package format, but you can also use the module format (`python -m jenkins_local_init.cli.main`) for all commands.

#### Docker Resources

```bash
# Initialize network and volume
jenkins-local-init docker init

# Check Docker resources
docker network ls | grep jenkins-local-net
docker volume ls | grep jenkins-local-data
```

#### SSH Keys

```bash
# Generate SSH keys
jenkins-local-init ssh generate

# Show public key
jenkins-local-init ssh show

# Backup existing SSH keys
jenkins-local-init ssh backup
```

#### Jenkins Master

```bash
# Deploy master
jenkins-local-init master deploy --admin-user admin --admin-password admin

# Check status
jenkins-local-init master status

# Control master (start/stop/restart)
jenkins-local-init master control start|stop|restart

# View master logs
jenkins-local-init master logs
```

#### Jenkins Agents

```bash
# Deploy agents
jenkins-local-init agent deploy --count 3 --admin-user admin --admin-password admin

# List agents
jenkins-local-init agent list

# View agent logs
jenkins-local-init agent logs

# Remove specific agent
jenkins-local-init agent remove INDEX

# Remove all agents
jenkins-local-init agent remove-all
```

## Command Reference

Here's a complete reference of all available commands:

### Global Commands

- `setup`: Set up complete Jenkins infrastructure
- `status`: Check the status of Jenkins infrastructure

### Docker Commands

- `docker init`: Initialize Docker network and volume

### SSH Commands

- `ssh generate`: Generate SSH key pair for Jenkins agents
- `ssh show`: Display the public key
- `ssh backup`: Backup existing SSH keys

### Master Commands

- `master deploy`: Deploy Jenkins master container
- `master status`: Check Jenkins master status
- `master control`: Control Jenkins master container (start/stop/restart)
- `master logs`: View Jenkins master logs

### Agent Commands

- `agent deploy`: Deploy Jenkins agent containers
- `agent list`: List all Jenkins agents
- `agent logs`: Show logs for all agents
- `agent remove`: Remove a specific agent
- `agent remove-all`: Remove all Jenkins agents

### Ngrok Commands (Public Access)

- `ngrok auth`: Configure Ngrok authentication token (REQUIRED before using `--public` flag)
- `ngrok start`: Start Ngrok tunnel to Jenkins master
- `ngrok stop`: Stop Ngrok tunnel
- `ngrok status`: Check Ngrok tunnel status

## Plugins

The setup command automatically installs the following plugins:

- Credentials Plugin
- Credentials Binding Plugin
- SSH Credentials Plugin
- SSH Slaves Plugin
- SSH Agent Plugin
- SSH Plugin

## GitHub Integration with Ngrok

When developing CI/CD pipelines with Jenkins and GitHub, webhooks require a public URL that GitHub can reach. Since localhost is not accessible from the internet, we've integrated Ngrok to provide a secure public URL for your local Jenkins instance.

### Why Ngrok?

- **GitHub Webhooks**: GitHub needs to send webhook events to your Jenkins instance when code is pushed or PRs are created
- **No Firewall/Router Configuration**: Works without port forwarding or static IP
- **Secure Tunnel**: Creates an encrypted tunnel to your localhost
- **Temporary by Design**: Perfect for development and testing

### Setting Up GitHub Webhooks

1. First, authenticate with Ngrok (this is mandatory):
   ```bash
   # Get your token from https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/your-authtoken
   jenkins-local-init ngrok auth YOUR_NGROK_AUTHTOKEN
   ```

2. Start your Jenkins with Ngrok:
   ```bash
   # During setup (recommended approach)
   jenkins-local-init setup --agents 2 --public
   
   # Or after setup (not recommended, may require manual URL configuration)
   jenkins-local-init ngrok start
   ```

2. Copy the public URL provided (e.g., `https://abc123.ngrok.io`)

3. In your GitHub repository:
   - Go to Settings > Webhooks > Add webhook
   - Set Payload URL to `https://abc123.ngrok.io/github-webhook/`
   - Select content type: `application/json`
   - Choose events to trigger the webhook (usually push, pull requests)
   - Save the webhook

4. Test the webhook by making a commit or creating a PR

### Ngrok Authentication

**IMPORTANT**: Before using the `--public` flag with the setup command, you MUST authenticate with Ngrok first. This is a mandatory prerequisite.

```bash
# Get your token from https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/your-authtoken
jenkins-local-init ngrok auth YOUR_NGROK_AUTHTOKEN
```

Why this is required:
- The new implementation starts Ngrok BEFORE Jenkins is deployed
- Jenkins is configured with the public URL during initialization
- This ensures webhooks work correctly from the start
- No need to update the Jenkins URL after deployment

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Docker daemon not running**
   - Error: `Error: Docker daemon is not running`
   - Solution: Start Docker daemon and try again

2. **Port conflicts**
   - Error: `Error: Port 8080 is already in use`
   - Solution: Stop any services using port 8080 or specify a different port with `--port`

3. **SSH key generation fails**
   - Error: `Failed to generate SSH keys`
   - Solution: Check permissions on the ~/.jenkins-local directory

4. **Jenkins master deployment fails**
   - Error: `Failed to deploy Jenkins master`
   - Solution: Check Docker logs and ensure Docker has enough resources

5. **Plugin installation fails**
   - Error: `Failed to install plugins`
   - Solution: Check Jenkins logs and ensure Jenkins has internet access

6. **Ngrok not installed**
   - Error: `Ngrok is not installed`
   - Solution: Install Ngrok using `brew install ngrok/ngrok/ngrok` or download from ngrok.com

7. **Ngrok authentication fails**
   - Error: `Ngrok is not authenticated`
   - Solution: Run `jenkins-local-init ngrok auth YOUR_NGROK_AUTHTOKEN`

### Getting Help

To get help for any command, use the `--help` flag:

```bash
jenkins-local-init --help
jenkins-local-init setup --help
jenkins-local-init agent deploy --help
```

## Directory Structure

The tool creates the following directory structure in your home directory:

```
~/.jenkins-local/
├── config/           # Configuration files
├── logs/             # Log files
├── ssh/              # SSH keys
│   ├── jenkins_agent     # Private key
│   └── jenkins_agent.pub # Public key
├── ngrok/            # Ngrok configuration and logs
│   ├── auth_token        # Ngrok auth token
│   └── ngrok.log         # Ngrok logs
└── backups/          # Backup files
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

Commit message:

Added changes to spin up nodes with labels
Master node label is master
Agent nodes label is agent

README.md, after:

![Working Snippet](./working_snippet.png)

# Jenkins Local Init

A tool for setting up and managing a local Distributed Jenkins Infrastructure with Docker.

## Features

- Automated setup of Jenkins master and agents
- Docker network and volume management
- SSH key generation and management
- Jenkins plugin installation
- Agent deployment and management with automatic node labeling
- Public URL access via Ngrok for GitHub webhooks

## Prerequisites

Before using this tool, make sure you have the following installed:

- **Docker**: Required for creating and managing containers
  - [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- **Python 3.6+**: Required to run the CLI tool
  - [Install Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- **Git**: Required for cloning the repository
  - [Install Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
- **Ngrok** (Optional): Required for public URL access
  - [Install Ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download)
  - You'll need a free Ngrok account and authtoken

## Installation

### Option 1: Install from GitHub

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Siddartha-Kodaboina/jenkins-local-init.git
cd jenkins-local-init

# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv venv

# Activate the virtual environment
# On macOS/Linux:
source venv/bin/activate
# On Windows:
# venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Install the package in development mode
pip install -e .
```

### Option 2: Use without installation

If you prefer not to install the package, you can run it directly using the Python module:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Siddartha-Kodaboina/jenkins-local-init.git
cd jenkins-local-init

# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv venv

# Activate the virtual environment
# On macOS/Linux:
source venv/bin/activate
# On Windows:
# venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run commands using the Python module
python -m jenkins_local_init.cli.main [COMMAND]
```

## Quick Start

Set up a complete Jenkins infrastructure with a single command:

```bash
# Basic setup with local access only:
jenkins-local-init setup --agents 3 --memory 2g --cpus 2 --admin-user admin --admin-password admin

# Setup with public URL access via Ngrok (for GitHub webhooks):
# IMPORTANT: You must first authenticate with Ngrok before using the --public flag
jenkins-local-init ngrok auth YOUR_NGROK_AUTHTOKEN  # Replace with your token from https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/your-authtoken
jenkins-local-init setup --agents 3 --memory 2g --cpus 2 --admin-user admin --admin-password admin --public

# If running as a module:
python -m jenkins_local_init.cli.main setup --agents 3 --memory 2g --cpus 2 --admin-user admin --admin-password admin
```

This will:
1. Initialize configuration directories
2. Set up Docker network and volume
3. Generate SSH keys
4. Set up Ngrok tunnel (if `--public` flag is used)
5. Deploy Jenkins master with the label 'master'
6. Deploy Jenkins agents with the label 'agent'
5. Deploy Jenkins master (with public URL configuration if Ngrok is used)
6. Install required plugins (credentials, ssh, etc.)
7. Check and build the Jenkins agent image if needed
8. Deploy Jenkins agents

## Detailed Usage

### Complete Setup

```bash
# If installed as a package:
jenkins-local-init setup [OPTIONS]

# If running as a module:
python -m jenkins_local_init.cli.main setup [OPTIONS]
```

Options:
- `--agents INTEGER`: Number of Jenkins agents to create (default: 1)
- `--memory TEXT`: Memory allocation for agents (default: 4g)
- `--cpus INTEGER`: Number of CPUs for agents (default: 2)
- `--admin-user TEXT`: Jenkins admin username (default: admin)
- `--admin-password TEXT`: Jenkins admin password (default: admin)
- `--public`: Create a public URL using Ngrok for remote access (requires prior Ngrok authentication)

### Individual Commands

If you prefer to set up the infrastructure step by step, you can use the following commands. For brevity, we'll show the commands using the installed package format, but you can also use the module format (`python -m jenkins_local_init.cli.main`) for all commands.

#### Docker Resources

```bash
# Initialize network and volume
jenkins-local-init docker init

# Check Docker resources
docker network ls | grep jenkins-local-net
docker volume ls | grep jenkins-local-data
```

#### SSH Keys

```bash
# Generate SSH keys
jenkins-local-init ssh generate

# Show public key
jenkins-local-init ssh show

# Backup existing SSH keys
jenkins-local-init ssh backup
```

#### Jenkins Master

```bash
# Deploy master
jenkins-local-init master deploy --admin-user admin --admin-password admin

# Check status
jenkins-local-init master status

# Control master (start/stop/restart)
jenkins-local-init master control start|stop|restart

# View master logs
jenkins-local-init master logs
```

#### Jenkins Agents

```bash
# Deploy agents
jenkins-local-init agent deploy --count 3 --admin-user admin --admin-password admin

# List agents
jenkins-local-init agent list

# View agent logs
jenkins-local-init agent logs

# Remove specific agent
jenkins-local-init agent remove INDEX

# Remove all agents
jenkins-local-init agent remove-all
```

## Command Reference

Here's a complete reference of all available commands:

### Global Commands

- `setup`: Set up complete Jenkins infrastructure
- `status`: Check the status of Jenkins infrastructure

### Docker Commands

- `docker init`: Initialize Docker network and volume

### SSH Commands

- `ssh generate`: Generate SSH key pair for Jenkins agents
- `ssh show`: Display the public key
- `ssh backup`: Backup existing SSH keys

### Master Commands

- `master deploy`: Deploy Jenkins master container
- `master status`: Check Jenkins master status
- `master control`: Control Jenkins master container (start/stop/restart)
- `master logs`: View Jenkins master logs

### Agent Commands

- `agent deploy`: Deploy Jenkins agent containers
- `agent list`: List all Jenkins agents
- `agent logs`: Show logs for all agents
- `agent remove`: Remove a specific agent
- `agent remove-all`: Remove all Jenkins agents

### Ngrok Commands (Public Access)

- `ngrok auth`: Configure Ngrok authentication token (REQUIRED before using `--public` flag)
- `ngrok start`: Start Ngrok tunnel to Jenkins master
- `ngrok stop`: Stop Ngrok tunnel
- `ngrok status`: Check Ngrok tunnel status

## Plugins

The setup command automatically installs the following plugins:

- Credentials Plugin
- Credentials Binding Plugin
- SSH Credentials Plugin
- SSH Slaves Plugin
- SSH Agent Plugin
- SSH Plugin

## GitHub Integration with Ngrok

When developing CI/CD pipelines with Jenkins and GitHub, webhooks require a public URL that GitHub can reach. Since localhost is not accessible from the internet, we've integrated Ngrok to provide a secure public URL for your local Jenkins instance.

### Why Ngrok?

- **GitHub Webhooks**: GitHub needs to send webhook events to your Jenkins instance when code is pushed or PRs are created
- **No Firewall/Router Configuration**: Works without port forwarding or static IP
- **Secure Tunnel**: Creates an encrypted tunnel to your localhost
- **Temporary by Design**: Perfect for development and testing

### Setting Up GitHub Webhooks

1. First, authenticate with Ngrok (this is mandatory):
   ```bash
   # Get your token from https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/your-authtoken
   jenkins-local-init ngrok auth YOUR_NGROK_AUTHTOKEN
   ```

2. Start your Jenkins with Ngrok:
   ```bash
   # During setup (recommended approach)
   jenkins-local-init setup --agents 2 --public
   
   # Or after setup (not recommended, may require manual URL configuration)
   jenkins-local-init ngrok start
   ```

2. Copy the public URL provided (e.g., `https://abc123.ngrok.io`)

3. In your GitHub repository:
   - Go to Settings > Webhooks > Add webhook
   - Set Payload URL to `https://abc123.ngrok.io/github-webhook/`
   - Select content type: `application/json`
   - Choose events to trigger the webhook (usually push, pull requests)
   - Save the webhook

4. Test the webhook by making a commit or creating a PR

### Ngrok Authentication

**IMPORTANT**: Before using the `--public` flag with the setup command, you MUST authenticate with Ngrok first. This is a mandatory prerequisite.

```bash
# Get your token from https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/your-authtoken
jenkins-local-init ngrok auth YOUR_NGROK_AUTHTOKEN
```

Why this is required:
- The new implementation starts Ngrok BEFORE Jenkins is deployed
- Jenkins is configured with the public URL during initialization
- This ensures webhooks work correctly from the start
- No need to update the Jenkins URL after deployment

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Docker daemon not running**
   - Error: `Error: Docker daemon is not running`
   - Solution: Start Docker daemon and try again

2. **Port conflicts**
   - Error: `Error: Port 8080 is already in use`
   - Solution: Stop any services using port 8080 or specify a different port with `--port`

3. **SSH key generation fails**
   - Error: `Failed to generate SSH keys`
   - Solution: Check permissions on the ~/.jenkins-local directory

4. **Jenkins master deployment fails**
   - Error: `Failed to deploy Jenkins master`
   - Solution: Check Docker logs and ensure Docker has enough resources

5. **Plugin installation fails**
   - Error: `Failed to install plugins`
   - Solution: Check Jenkins logs and ensure Jenkins has internet access

6. **Ngrok not installed**
   - Error: `Ngrok is not installed`
   - Solution: Install Ngrok using `brew install ngrok/ngrok/ngrok` or download from ngrok.com

7. **Ngrok authentication fails**
   - Error: `Ngrok is not authenticated`
   - Solution: Run `jenkins-local-init ngrok auth YOUR_NGROK_AUTHTOKEN`

### Getting Help

To get help for any command, use the `--help` flag:

```bash
jenkins-local-init --help
jenkins-local-init setup --help
jenkins-local-init agent deploy --help
```

## Directory Structure

The tool creates the following directory structure in your home directory:

```
~/.jenkins-local/
├── config/           # Configuration files
├── logs/             # Log files
├── ssh/              # SSH keys
│   ├── jenkins_agent     # Private key
│   └── jenkins_agent.pub # Public key
├── ngrok/            # Ngrok configuration and logs
│   ├── auth_token        # Ngrok auth token
│   └── ngrok.log         # Ngrok logs
└── backups/          # Backup files
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.
